http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Thousands_protest_over_alleged_Russian_election_fraud
Thousands protest over alleged Russian election fraud
2011-12-11
Published, Archived, Russia, Europe, Asia, Culture and entertainment, Vladimir Putin, Moscow
Tens of thousands protested yesterday in Bolotnaya SquareMoscow over allegations of election fraud in parliamentary elections won by United Russiathe ruling political partyled by current Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin.
The exact number of protesters present is unknown; estimates for the Moscow protest vary from twenty thousand to one hundred thousandand rallies on a more minor scale also took place in other Russian cities—including Saint Petersburg. Voice of America (VoA) reported the demonstrations as the largest pro-democracy protests since Vladimir Putin came to power eleven years ago. Other reports describe the demonstrations as the greatest since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Police estimated that ten thousand people were present at demonstrations in St. Petersburg. Corruption and a rejection of Putin were the most commonly-cited grievances from questioned protesters.
Opposition leader Evgenia Chirikova told VoA the protests were in favour of fresh electionsand the release of political prisoners. During the demonstrationsprotesters chanted "policepart of the people" at the riot police. Echo of Moscow host Alexei Venediktov described the protesters as "the new generationthe Putin generation". These people "votedhad their votes stolenand now they want a fair system"said Venediktov.
Konstantin Kosachyova United Russia parliamentariandismissed the concept of discussions with the protest organisers. "With all respect for the people who came out to protestthey are not a political party," he stated. Student Daniil Klubova leader of the St. Petersburg rallytold the BBC that he does not "belong to any political movement" and is "just a student who is tired of all these lies".
Last weekRussian police arrested an estimated 1,600 people after street protests. In anticipation of yesterday's protestsfifty thousand police and riot police were drafted into Moscow. Under one hundred arrests were made across the country during the day of protest.
Television stations operated by the Russian government provided no coverage of protests in Russia from last week's electionbut lifted the blackout one week onbroadcasting images of thousands filling a Moscow parkspilling over a bridge and covering a facing embankment.
On FridayMoscow authorities declared an obligatory test for all high school studentsscheduling it for the exact time of protests on Saturday; protest leader Alexey Navalny is currently imprisoned by order of a Russian judge. Anda Russian health board warned of respiratory diseases being contracted when being in large crowds. Russian Ground Forces cautioned that they would be observinglooking for instances of draft evasion as protesters walked through metal detectors.
Although United Russia were declared victors in last Sunday's pollsthe percentage of votes in their favour decreased significantly—down from 64% to 49%.
In March next yearPutin himself will face votersseeking a new six-year term as Russian President. VoA reported last week that his presidential bid looked likely to succeed; howeverthat outcome now seems less predictable.


