http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Gingrich,_Perry_fail_to_qualify_for_Virginia_Republican_presidential_primary_ballot
Gingrich, Perry fail to qualify for Virginia Republican presidential primary ballot
2011-12-24
United States, North America, Politics and conflicts, Published, Archived, Virginia, Newt Gingrich, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney, Ron Paul, Rick Santorum, Republican Party (United States)
Republican candidates for President of the United States Newt Gingrich and Rick Perry have failed to qualify to be on the ballot for the Virginia primary electionscheduled for March 6Super Tuesday.
Gingrichformer Speaker of the United States House of Representatives and PerryGovernor of Texasdid not submit the 10,000 signatureswith at least 400 from each of the state's eleven congressional districtsto the state's board of elections before the 5:00 PM deadline last Thursday required to gain ballot accessaccording to the Republican Party of Virginia.
Gingrich's and Perry's campaigns both claimed to have more signatures than needed11,050 and 11,911 respectively. Volunteers spent last night reviewing the submitted petitions and validating signatures. Reportedly Rick Perry is considering an appeal of the assessment.
Among other major candidates for the 2012 Republican presidential nominationformer Governor of Massachusetts Mitt Romney and Texas congressman Ron Paul submitted the required petition and qualified for the ballot. On Thursdayit was disclosed that candidates Michele Bachmann and Rick Santorum also failed to gain ballot access.
According to the manager of the Gingrich campaignMichael Krullthe former House Speaker plans to compete in the Virginia primarydespite not gaining ballot accessas a write-in candidate. Krull blamed a "failed system" for the campaign's inability to gain ballot access. Rick Perry's campaign manager said he was disappointed by that campaign's failure to qualify for the ballot. According to a recent poll of 489 Republican voters by Quinnipiac UniversityGingrich leads in the state with 30% of supportfollowed by Mitt Romney at 25% and Ron Paul at 9%.
As Virginia's delegates to the Republican National Convention are not awarded on a winner-take-all basiscandidates other than the winner of the state's primary could also gain delegates from the state.


