http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Former_Australian_PM_helps_to_launch_%27anti-warmist_manual%27
Former Australian PM helps to launch 'anti-warmist manual'
2011-12-14
Published, Archived, Australia, Oceania, Politics and conflicts, South Australia, John Howard
Former Australian Prime Minister John Howard supported the launch of a new book "How to Get Expelled from School: A Guide to Climate Change for PupilsPundits and Parents"authored by geology professor Ian Plimer. The book includes 101 questions for students to use to challenge their climate science teachers.
The book follows Professor Plimer's 2009 "Heaven and Earth". Professor Plimer said the previous book received feedback from parents concerned about education. This prompted him to address the next book to children. He said"After Heaven and Earth came out I had many parents write to me and say'Lookwhat do we doour kids are being fed activism. I want my children to have the basics of scientistsI don't want to be fed activism'".
Mr Howard advocated emissions trading in 2007. He says he considered it feasible if the rest of the world acted toootherwise to introduce carbon trading plans would risk Australian industries. "I proposed an emissions trading scheme and some people say'Well why on earth did you do that?' It was predicated on the rest of the world moving in the same direction and also predicated on a structure that would preserve the international competitiveness of those industries that gave our country a competitive trade advantageit could do no harm"he explained. "It's hard to understand how we would do anything to put" Australia's competitive advantage due to natural resources "at risk. The reality is we are doing that at the moment. The carbon tax is not being replicated in other countries."
Professor Ian Entingcomplex system scientist at the University of Melbournesaid the book includes scientific errors and insufficient references. Margaret Wattspresident of the Science Teachers' Association of New South Walessaid the educational bias claim is mistaken. "What science teachers do"she said"is put all of the factspro and conagainst any topicwhatever it isand show the children how to work through the evidence".
Professor Plimer said of the 101 questions in his book"They're questions that kids should be asking of teachersbecause if the teacher can answer it means they might know something about the subject. If they can'tor start to promote ideologyit shows that our schools have been captured. Parents are telling me that schools have been captured by a lot of activists and kids are being fed stuff that is not relevant to the real world."


