http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/A_portrait_of_Scotland:_Gallery_reopens_after_%C2%A317.6_million_renovation
A portrait of Scotland: Gallery reopens after £17.6 million renovation
2011-12-01
Original reporting, Featured article, Published, Archived, Culture and entertainment, Art, United Kingdom, Europe, Edinburgh, Lothian and Borders, Pakistan, Asia, Doctor Who
Today saw Edinburgh's Scottish National Portrait Gallery reopen following a two-and-a-half-year£17.6m (US$27.4m) refurbishment. Conversion of office and storage areas sees 60% more space available for displaysand the world's first purpose-built portrait space is redefining what a portrait gallery should contain; amongst the displays are photographs of the Scottish landscape—portraits of the country itself.
First opened in 1889Sir Robert Rowand Anderson's red sandstone building was gifted to the nation by John Ritchie Findlaythen-owner of The Scotsman newspaper anda well-known philanthropist. The original cost of construction between 1885 and 1890 is estimated at over 70,000 pounds sterling. Up until 1954the building also housed the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland who moved to the National Museum of Scotland buildings on Chambers Street. The society's original meeting table now sits in the public part of the portrait gallery's librarystared down on by an array of busts and phrenological artefacts.
Wikinewsie Brian McNeilwith other members of the pressreceived a guided tour of the gallery last Monday from Deputy Director Nicola Kalinsky. What Kalinsky described as an introduction to the gallery that previously took around 40 minutesnow takes in excess of an hour-and-a-half; with little in the way of questions askeda more inquisitive tour group could readily take well over two hours to be guided round the seventeen exhibitions currently housed in the gallery.
A substantial amount of the 60% additional exhibition space is readily apparent on the ground floor. On your left as you enter the gallery is the newly-fitted giant glass elevatorand the "Hot Scots" photographic portrait gallery. This exhibit is intended to show well-known Scottish facesand will change over time as people fall out of favourand others take their place. A substantial number of the people now being highlighted are currentand recentcast members from the BBC's Doctor Who series.
The new elevator (left) is the most visible change to improve disabled access to the gallery. Prior to the renovation workaccess was only 'on request' through staff using a wooden ramp to allow wheelchair access. The entire Queen Street front of the building is reworked with sloping access in addition to the original steps. Whilst a lift was previously available within the galleryit was only large enough for two people; when used for a wheelchairit was so cramped that any disabled person's helper had to go up or down separately from them.
The gallery expects that the renovation work will see visitor numbers double from before the 2009 closure to around 300,000 each year. As with many of Edinburgh's museums and galleriesaccess is free to the public.
The expected significant increase in numbers has seen them working closely with the National Museum of Scotlandwhich was itself reopened earlier this year after extensive refurbishment work; improved access for wheelchair users also makes it far easier for mothers with baby buggies to access the gallery – prompting more thought on issues as seemingly small as nappy-changing – as Patricia Converythe gallery's Head of Presstold Wikinewsa great deal of thought went into the practicalities of increased visitor numbersand what is needed to ensure as many visitors as possible have a good experience at the gallery.
Press access to the gallery on Monday was from around 11:30amwith refreshments and an opportunity to catch some of the staff in the Grand Hall before a brief welcoming introduction to the refurbished gallery given by John Leightondirector of the National Galleries of Scotland. Centre-stage in the Grand Hall is a statue of Robert Burns built with funds raised from around the British Empire and intended for his memorial situated on Edinburgh's Calton Hill.
The ambulatories surrounding the Grand Hall give the space a cathedral-like feelwith numerous busts – predominantly of Scottish figures – looking in on the tiled floor. The east corner holds a plaque commemorating the gallery's reopeningnext to a far more ornate memorial to John Ritchie Findlaywho not only funded and commissioned the building's constructionbut masterminded all aspects of the then-new home for the national collection.
Split into two groupsmembers of the press toured with gallery Director James Hollowayand Nicola KalinskyDeputy Director. Wikinews' McNeil joined Kalinsky's groupfirst visiting The Contemporary Scotland Gallery. This ground-floor gallery currently houses two exhibitsfirst being the Hot Scots display of photographic portraits of well-known Scottish figures from filmtelevisionand music. Centre-stage in this exhibit is the newly-acquired Albert Watson portrait of Sir Sean Connery. James McAvoyArmando Iannucciplaywright John Byrneand Dr Who actress Karen Gillan also feature in the 18-photograph display.
The second exhibit in the Contemporary galleryflanked by the new educational facilitiesis the Missing exhibit. This is a video installation by Graham Fagenand deals with the issue of missing persons. The installation was first shown during the National Theatre of Scotland's staging of Andrew O'Hagan's playThe Missing. Amongst the images displayed in Fagen's video exhibit are clips from the deprived Sighthill and Wester-Hailes areas of Edinburghincluding footage of empty play-areas and footbridges across larger roads that sub-divide the areas.
With the only other facilities on the ground floor being the education suitereception/information deskcafe and the gallery's shopWikinews' McNeil proceeded with the rest of Kalinsky's tour group to the top floor of the galleryall easily fitting into the large glass hydraulic elevator.
The top (2nd) floor of the building is now divided into ten gallerieswith the larger spaces having had loweredfalse ceilings removedand adjustable ceiling blinds installed to allow a degree of control over the amount of natural light let in. The architects and building contractors responsible for the renovation work were requiredfor one side of the buildingto recreate previously-removed skylights by duplicating those they refurbished on the other. Kalinskyat one pointhighlighted a constructed-from-scratch new sandstone door frame; indistinguishable from the building's original fittingsshe remarked that the building workers had taken "a real interest" in the vision for the gallery.
The tour group were first shown the Citizens of the World gallerycurrently hosting an 18th century Enlightenment-themed display which focuses on the works of David Hume and Allan Ramsay. Alongside the most significant 18th century items from the National Portrait Gallery's collectionare some of the 133 new loans for the opening displays. For previous visitors to the galleryone other notable change is underfoot; previously carpetedthe original parquet floors of the museum have been polished and varnishedand there is little to indicate it is over 120 years since the flooring was originally laid.
Throughout many of the upper-floor displaysthe gallery has placed more light-sensitive works in wall-mounted cabinets and pull-out drawers. Akin to rummaging through the drawers and cupboards of a strange housea wealth of items – many previously never displayed – are now accessible by the public. Commenting on the largerfeatured oilsDeputy Director Kalinsky stressed that centuries-old portraits displayed in the naturally-lit upper exhibitions had not been restored for the opening; focus groups touring the gallery during the renovation had queried thisand the visibly bright colours are actually the consequence of displaying the works in natural lightnot costly and risky restoration of the paintings.
There are four other large galleries on the top floor. Reformation to Revolution is an exhibition covering the transition from an absolute Catholic monarchy through to the 1688 revolution. Items on-display include some of the Scottish National Portrait Gallery's most famous items – including Mary Queen of Scots and The Execution of Charles I. The portrait-based depiction of this historical age is complemented with printsmedalsand miniatures from the period.
Imagining Power is a Jacobite-themed exhibitionone which looks at the sometime-romanticised Stuart dynasty. The Gallery owns the most extensive collection of such material in the world; the portraiture that includes Flora MacDonald and Prince Charles Edward Stuart is complemented by glassware from the period which is on-loan from the Drambuie Liqueur Company which Kalinsky remarked upon as the only way Scots from the period could celebrate the deposed monarchy – toasting The King over the Water in appropriately engraved glasses.
On the other side of the upper floorthe two main naturally-lit exhibitions are The Age of Improvementand Playing for Scotland. The first of these looks at societal changes through the 18th and 19th centuriesincluding Nasmyth's 1787 portrait of the young Robert Burns and – well-known to past visitors to the portrait gallery – Raeburn's 1822 depiction of Sir Walter Scott. These are complemented with some of the National Gallery's collection of landscapes and earliest scenes from Scottish industry.
Playing for Scotland takes a look at the development of modern sports in the 19th century; migration from countryside to cities dramatically increased participation in sporting activitiesand standardised rules were laid down for many modern sports. This exhibition covers Scotland's four national sports – curlingshintygolfand bowls – and includes some interesting photographic imagessuch as those of early strong-menwhich show how more leisure time increased people's involvement in sporting activities.
Next to the Reformation to Revolution gallery is A Survey of Scotland. Largely composed of works on-loan from the National Library of Scotlandthis showcase of John Slezer's work which led to the 1693 publication of Theatrum Scotiae also includes some of the important early landscape paintings in the national collection.
The work of Scotland's first portrait painterthe Aberdeen-born George Jamesonetakes up the other of the smaller exhibits on the east side of the refurbished building. As the first-ever dedicated display of Jamesone's workhis imaginary heroic portraits of Robert the Bruce and Sir William Wallace are included.
On the west side of the buildingthe two smaller galleries currently house the Close Encounters and Out of the Shadow exhibits. Close Encounters is an extensive collection of the Glasgow slums photographic work of Thomas Annan. Few people are visible in the black and white images of the slumsmaking what were squalid conditions appear more romantic than the actual conditions of living in them.
The Out of the Shadow exhibit takes a look at the role of women in 19th century Scotlandshowing them moving forward and becoming more recognisable individuals. The exceptions to the rules of the timeknown for their work as writers and artistsas-opposed to the perceived role of primary duties as wives and mothersare showcased. Previously constrained to the domestic sphere and only featuring in portraits alongside menthose on-display are some of the people who laid the groundwork for the Suffrage movement.
The first floor of the newly-reopened building has four exhibits on one sidewith the library and photographic gallery on the other. The wood-lined library was movedin its entiretyfrom elsewhere in the building and is divided into two parts. In the main public partthe original table from the Society of Antiquaries sits centred and surrounded by glass-fronted cabinets of reference books. Visiblebut closed to public accessis the research area. Apart from a slight smell of wood gluethere was little to indicate to the tour group that the entire room had been moved from elsewhere in the building.
The War at Sea exhibita collaboration with the Imperial War Museumshowcases the work of official war artist John Lavery. His paintings are on-displaycomplemented by photographs of the women who worked in British factories throughout the First World War. Just visible from the windows of this gallery is the Firth of Forth where much of the naval action in the war took place. Situated in the corner of the room is a remote-controlled 'periscope' which allows visitors a clearer view of the Forth as-seen from the roof of the building.
Sir Patrick Geddesbest-known for his work on urban planningis cited as one of the key influencers of the Scottish Renaissance Movement which serves as a starting point for The Modern Scot exhibit. A new look at the visual aspects of the movementand a renewal of Scottish Nationalist culture that began between the two World Warscontinuing into the late 20th centurysees works by William McCanceWilliam Johnstoneand notable modernists on display.
Migration Stories is a mainly photographic exhibitprominently featuring family portraits from the country's 30,000-strong Pakistani communityand exploring migration into and out of Scotland. The gallery's intent is to change the exhibit over timetaking a look at a range of aspects of Scottish identity and the influence on that from migration. In addition to the striking portraits of notable Scots-Pakistani family groupsFragments of Love – by Pakistani-born filmmaker Sana Bilgrami – and Isabella T. McNair's visual narration of a Scottish teacher in Lahore are currently on-display.
The adjacent Pioneers of Science exhibit has Ken Currie's 2002 Three Oncologists as its most dramatic item. Focussing on Scotland's reputation as a centre of scientific innovationthe model for James Clerk Maxwell's statue in the city's George Street sits alongside photographs from the Roslin Institute and a death mask of Dolly the sheep. Deputy Director Kalinskycommented that Dolly had been an incredibly spoilt animaloften given sweetsand this was evident from her teeth when the death mask was taken.
Now open daily from 10am to 5pmand with more of their collection visible than ever beforethe Scottish National Portrait Gallery will change some of the smaller current exhibits after 12 to 18 months on display. The ground-floor information desk has available five mini-guidesor 'trails'which are thematic guides to specific display items. These are: The Secret Nature trailThe Catwalk Collection trailThe Situations Vacant trailThe Best Wee Nation &amp; The World trailand The Fur Coat an' Nae Knickers Trail.

