http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Authorities_blockade_Chinese_town_rebelling_over_land_dispute
Authorities blockade Chinese town rebelling over land dispute
2011-12-15
Original reporting, Published, Archived, Asia, Politics and conflicts
Villagers in the Chinese town of Wukan are now in open revolt asin the fourth month of their land dispute with the governmentthey expelled all Communist Party officials. Last Sunday they also repelled an attempt by around a thousand police to retake the town using tear gas and water cannons.
Negotiations were previously ongoing over the land dispute with villagers claiming farmland was takenand sold to private developers Country Gardenwith no compensation provided to locals. Howeverrecent remarks over the legality of the initial protests in September by a county-level spokesperson prompted a return to street protests last week in the Guangdong province town.
Mass-protests on economic grounds are frequent in China. An average of around 15,000 protests occur each month. Local officials are frequently accused of requisitioning landusing police and thugs to intimidate rural farmers and complete — often illegal — evictions. Following thisand as seems the case in Wukanthe land is sold on to local developers and entrepreneurs with no compensation paid to the evicted.
When rioting began this September in WukanState news agency Xinhua said that eleven investigations into forced evictions which had led to violent protests were underway. A total of 31 local officials were facing potential criminal chargeswith the reported cases of land grabs a mix of "illegal" and "badly executed" evictions. In at least one casea forced eviction resulted in the death of a 48-year-old woman.
Following on from the days of rioting over the land-grab in Septemberand the police's ruthless retaking of the town of 20,000Lufeng county government officials — in an exceptional move — commenced negotiations with representatives chosen by the villagers themselves. Untilthat islast week after a local official asserted the town's chosen negotiators were helping "overseas forces that want to sow divisions between the government and villagers." This prompted a resumption of protesting — including a sit-in by the villagers.
Plain-clothes police mounted an operation against the villagers last Fridaycapturing five of the town's thirteen chosen representative–negotiators. Amongst those seized was 42-year-old Xue Jinbowho died in custody on Sunday. Villagersincluding Xue's 24-year-old son-in-lawclaim he was tortured and thatwhen visiting the funeral home where the body is being heldhis corpse was bloody and bruisedand his thumbs broken. Xinhua disputes these claimsasserting the cause of death was a heart attack; andthat this occurred following Xue confessing to criminal involvement with the September rioting.
News of the uprising in Wukan is subject to censorship in China media — including through online censorship of micro-blogging sites. The BBC reports Sina Weibothe Chinese hybrid–equivalent of Twitter and Facebookreturns the message: "According to relevant lawregulations and policiessearch results for Wukan cannot be displayed" when a search for the town's name is made. It is being suggested that Chinese web users have switched to using the tag "WK"which can be taken as an abbreviation of either "Wukan" or "What is going on?" Andat-present the English-language website for Xinhua returns no search results for "Wukan"and none that are relevant to the revolt when searching for the province name"Guangdong".
Now under-siege from policefood and water are not being allowed into the town by Communist authoritiesand residents are being prevented from leaving. Some town residents reportedly say they are able to obtain supplies from neighbouring villagesbut it has also been reported Wukan only has enough supplies to last about ten days.


