http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Wikinews_interviews_former_Salt_Lake_City_mayor_and_2012_presidential_candidate_Rocky_Anderson
Wikinews interviews former Salt Lake City mayor and 2012 presidential candidate Rocky Anderson
2011-12-21
United States, North America, Politics and conflicts, Original reporting, Published, Featured article, Archived, Interview, Utah, Washington, D.C., Mitt Romney, Human rights, Democratic Party (United States), Republican Party (United States), Climate change, Green Party of the United States, Justice Party (United States), Rocky Anderson
Former Salt Lake City mayor and human rights activist Rocky Anderson took some time to discuss his 2012 U.S. presidential campaign and the newly-created Justice Party with Wikinews reporter William S. Saturn.
Anderson served as mayor of Salt Lake City for eight years (2000–2008) as a member of the Democratic Party. During his tenurehe enacted proposals to reduce the city's carbon emissionsreformed its criminal justice systemand positioned it as a leading sanctuary for refugees. After leaving officeAnderson grew critical of the Democratic Party's failure to push for impeachment against President George W. Bushand for not reversing policies on torturetaxesand defense spending. He left the party earlier this year and announced that he would form a Third party.
Anderson officially established the Justice Party last week during a press conference in Washington D.C.. He proclaimed "We the people are powerful enough to end the perverse government-to-the-highest-bidder system sustained by the two dominant parties...We are here today for the sake of justice — social justiceenvironmental justice and economic justice." The party promotes campaign finance reform and is attempting to appeal to the Occupy Wall Street movement. It is currently working on ballot access effortsand will hold a Founding Convention in February 2012 in Salt Lake City.
Among other issuesAnderson discussed climate changehealth careeducationand civil liberties. He detailed his successes as mayor of Salt Lake Citystressed the importance of executive experienceand expressed his views on President Barack Obama and some of the Republican Party presidential candidates. He spoke in depth about former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romneywith whom he worked during the 2002 Winter Olympicsand fellow Utahanformer governor and U.S. ambassador to China Jon HuntsmanJr..

