http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Vettel_wins_2010_Brazilian_Grand_Prix,_securing_Constructors%27_Championship_for_Red_Bull
Vettel wins 2010 Brazilian Grand Prix, securing Constructors&#39; Championship for Red Bull
2010-11-09
Published,Archived,South America,Brazil,Sports,Formula One,Russia,Vladimir Putin,Europe,Sochi,

Red Bull drivers Sebastian Vettel and Mark Webber took the top two podium places in the Brazilian Formula One Grand Prix at the Autódromo José Carlos Pace in São Paulo on Sunday. This secures victory for their two-car Red Bull team in the 2010 Constructors" Cup, with one race left. However, the Drivers" Championship is yet to be decided. The Abu Dhabi GP will be the decider in a season of close competition.Surprisingly, Nico Hülkenberg started the race in pole position. But Hülkenberg couldn"t delay Vettel beyond the first corner, his Williams being passed later in the opening lap by Webber and Fernando Alonso "s Ferrari . Hülkenberg finished 8th, the first car to finish a lap behind the winner.Lewis Hamilton ( McLaren ) started 4th, but was overtaken by Alonso after an error. He and teammate Jenson Button saw the chequered flag 4th and 5th.Mercedes GP drivers Nico Rosberg and Michael Schumacher finished 6th and 7th, on the same lap as winner Vettel.A high-speed accident involving Force India "s Vitantonio Liuzzi triggered a safety car twenty laps from the end, preventing overtaking for several laps and mixing up both lapped and leading cars.Alonso, who grabbed the remaining podium place, still leads the Drivers" Championship with 246 points. Both Webber and Vettel closed the gap to 8 and 15 points respectively.Other Formula One racing news came from Russia on Sunday, as Prime Minister Putin tested the Renault R30 of Vitaly Petrov in St. Petersburg . Putin has been known previously to test his skills piloting fighter jets and firefighting aircraft. Early in October, Putin signed a deal for the Russian F1 Grand Prix , to be held at Sochi from 2014 onwards.