http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/%27Worst_song_of_all_time%27_becomes_YouTube_sensation
'Worst song of all time' becomes YouTube sensation
2011-03-23
Internet , Published , Archived , YouTube , World , Culture and entertainment , Music , California , United States , North America , Computing , Science and technology , Justin Bieber
Friday, a song by US teen singer Rebecca Black, has gone viral after the song's music video was uploaded onto video sharing website YouTube. The video has attracted over thirty-five million views since its February 10 upload — and critics think it could be the world's worst. Ark Music Factory produced the song and video, using US$2,000 (£1,223, C$1,964, €1,412) from Black's mother. Friday's video was shot at Black's father's house, with her family and friends as extras. The song beat an alternative track when choosing what to record. The single is climbing up the iTunes singles chart in the United Kingdom and the United States, gaining a higher position in the US than Canadian singer Justin Bieber. Despite the song's popularity, it has received a largely negative reception. According to Newsbeat, critics have cited Friday as being "the worst song of all time." On YouTube, the video attracted approximately thirty-six thousand 'likes' versus over 314,000 'dislikes'. The song itself has been ridiculed for its lyrics and criticised for its use of Auto-Tune. Feeling "like [she was] being cyber-bullied," Rebecca Black said "[w]hen I first saw all these nasty comments I thought this is all my fault, ... this was all because of me." Black says of "[t]hose hurtful comments", the worst was "I hope you cut yourself and I hope you get an eating disorder so you look pretty. I hope you cut and die." Clarence Jey, of Ark Music Factory, offered to take the video off YouTube, but Black declined. In contrast, British music executive Simon Cowell has expressed a positive interest in Rebecca Black. "I love her and the fact she's gotten so much publicity," Cowell commented. "People are so upset about the song, but I think it's hysterical. I want to meet her. Anyone who can create this much controversy within a week, I want to meet. I love people like that." Rebecca Black herself wants to record a duet with Justin Bieber. "I have Bieber fever — I am in love with Justin Bieber," Black commented. The teenager said it "would be unbelievable and make my life".   