http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/U.S._House_rejects_Senate_version_of_payroll_tax_cut
U.S. House rejects Senate version of payroll tax cut
2011-12-21
Published, Archived, Politics and conflicts, US Congress, US Senate, US House of Representatives, Barack Obama, Nancy Pelosi, North America, Tea Party movement, Democratic Party (United States), Republican Party (United States), John Boehner
Yesterdaythe United States House of Representatives voted to effectively reject the Senate version of a billpassed with bipartisan supportto extend a payroll tax cut two months past its year-end expiration date. The House voted instead to create a conference committee to settle differences between members of both bodies.
Although the tax cut extension itself has support among Republicans and Democratslawmakers disagree on how Congress should go about compensating for the cost of extending the cut and the policy changes it would entail.
During an appearance yesterdayPresident Obama condemned opposition to the Senate-passed version of the billaccusing Republicans in the House of trying to negotiate on matters unrelated to the bill. Republicansin responsesay there is still time to negotiate the billinsisting that lawmakers ought to concentrate on a year-long plan rather than a two-month extension. Senate Democratic leader Harry Reidhoweversays he will not agree to negotiate the tax cut extension until the Senate-approved bill is passed by the House.
If the tax cut is not extended and instead expires on December 31approximately 160 million Americans will be affected by the tax increase; President Obama insists the only way to prevent the tax hike beginning January 1 is for the House to pass the Senate bill. In responseHouse Speaker and Republican John Boehner wants Obama to "call on the Senate to return" to negotiate. The Senateshortly after passing the billadjourned for the Holiday break.
Also included in the bill is a provision that would require President Obama to make a decision regarding the construction of the Keystone XL pipelinea pipeline that would transport oil from Canada to Texas.
House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi blamed the congressional year-end impasse on "Tea Party Republicans." In a letter to President ObamaSpeaker Boehner requested he galvanize the Senate to negotiate on the bill's provisionswriting "The differences between the two different bills can be quickly reconciled to provide the American people the certainty of a full-year bill. There are still 11 days before the end of the yearand with so many Americans strugglingthere is no reason they should be wasted. You have said many times that Congress must do its work before taking vacation".


