http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Former_Salt_Lake_City_mayor_Rocky_Anderson_announces_presidential_bid
Former Salt Lake City mayor Rocky Anderson announces presidential bid
2011-12-13
United States, North America, Politics and conflicts, Published, Archived, Utah, Washington, D.C., Democratic Party (United States), Justice Party (United States), Rocky Anderson
Former Salt Lake CityUtah mayor and human rights activist Rocky Anderson announced yesterday at a press conference in WashingtonD.C. that he is officially a candidate for the office of President of the United States. He also formally announced the creation of a new third party: the Justice Partyunder which he will make his run.
Andersonwho is known as an outspoken advocate of campaign finance reformimmigration reformand LGBT rightsserved as Mayor of Salt Lake City for two terms from 2000 to 2008 as a member of the Democratic Party. During his tenurehe enacted proposals to reduce the city's carbon emissionsreformed its criminal justice systemand positioned it as a leading sanctuary for refugees. Since leaving the officeAnderson has been critical of the Democratic Party and president Barack Obama. Earlier this yearhe left the partyfaulting it for failing to push impeachment against President George W. Bushand for not reversing policies on torturetaxesand defense spending.
Talk of an Anderson presidential run goes back at least five years. According to The Nationin 2006after delivering a speech on the steps of city hallsupporters asked Anderson to run for president. He responded "I'd be torn to pieces" as a candidatebut "if I thought I could winI would run. This country certainly needs leadership." Last OctoberAnderson announced that he wished to create a new political partyand last monthconfirmed that he would run for president.
At yesterday's press conferencewhich was attended by about 30 peopleAnderson remarked"We the people are powerful enough to end the perverse government-to-the-highest-bidder system sustained by the two dominant parties...We are here today for the sake of justice — social justiceenvironmental justice and economic justice." The low turnout at the event was attributed to the lack of notice and sufficient planning.
Speaking of the low turnoutAnderson argued that "This is what grass roots looks like at the very beginning." He says he will limit campaign contributions to $100. He is working to have the Justice Party appear on state ballots in time for the election next Novemberand hopes to draw support from the Occupy Wall Street movement.
According to The Salt Lake Tribunethe Justice Party's three primary goals include: the removal of corporate money from politics through a Constitutional amendmentan abolition of the country's two party political systemand the election of Anderson as president. A nominating convention is planned for February 2012.


