http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/%27There%27s_been_another_murder%27:_UK%27s_Wright_Stuff_presenter_apologises_for_teen_murder_comments
'There's been another murder': UK's Wright Stuff presenter apologises for teen murder comments
2011-12-08
Culture and entertainment, Published, Archived, United Kingdom, England, Europe, Crime and law, Facebook, Computing, Science and technology, Scotland, Liam Aitchison, Outer Hebrides
Matthew Wrighthost of British television programme The Wright Stuffhas apologised for remarks he made on the show in relation to the murder of Liam Aitchison.
On the edition of the Channel 5 programme broadcast on Tuesdaythe murder of Liam Aitchison was being examined as part of a newspaper review segment. At this pointWright said the words "there's been another murder" while using a false Scottish accentas a reference to the UK television crime drama Taggart. Charlie Bakerwho appeared on the panel alongside Wrightremarked that the investigation into Aitchison's death would be like "the longest episode of Taggart of all time". The audience can be heard to be laughing at this point. "There's a lot of downtime in between," Baker continued.
In the statementthe family of Liam Aitchison found what they called the "insensitive and offensive nature of the comments made" to be "very upsetting and insulting fornot just the familybut for the whole community of the Western Isles." On the website for The Wright StuffLiam Aitchison's father Norman wrote a comment which read: "Would your panel members be making a joke of this if it was one of their own children? My son's death is no joke and I am disgusted with every single one of you on that panel. Let my son rest in peace".
On the edition of The Wright Stuff broadcast yesterdayWright said he would "like to apologise" if any viewers had been offended by his comments. "Certainlyno intention on my part to belittle the seriousnessor the tragedy of this storyor to offend anyone who knew Liam," Wright clarified. "You know meI have been touched by death too many times to belittle anything like that." Channel 5 believe that Wright had made his apology "clear"according to a spokeswoman for the channel. HoweverWright mentioned that he had "not been helped by people running campaigns 'report Matthew Wright to Ofcom'," a UK media regulator. He advised such people to "grow up".
Channel 5 subsequently revoked access to Tuesday's episode of The Wright Stuff from its on demand service. The comments have also been removed from their website.
Angus MacNeilthe MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iardescribed the behaviour of Wright as "beyond belief" and told of his intention to complain to Ofcom. The comments "disgusted everyone," MacNeil said. Comhairle nan Eilean Siara local authority within the islandshas complained to Ofcom. A page on the social networking website Facebookentitled 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom'has attracted in excess of two thousand likes. Ofcom is currently "in the process of assessing those complaints"according to a spokesperson. As of yetthe regulator has not "made any decision to investigate those complaints at this stage"although the concept of an investigation is currently a possibility.
Earlier this monththe Northern Constabularywhich has not made any statement regarding this matterlaunched a murder inquiry in the aftermath of Liam Aitchison's deathhaving considered his death to be as the result of a murder following an autopsy. He was last sighted in the town of Stornoway on November 22 of this year. His remains were found in an abandoned building in Steinish on November 29.


