http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/South_Carolina_governor_Nikki_Haley_endorses_Mitt_Romney_for_U.S._president
South Carolina governor Nikki Haley endorses Mitt Romney for U.S. president
2011-12-17
Archived, South Carolina, Massachusetts, Politics and conflicts, North America, United States, 2012 United States presidential election, Mitt Romney, Newt Gingrich, Republican Party (United States)
South Carolina governor Nikki Haley endorsed Republican Party (GOP) presidential candidate and former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney yesterday at an event in GreenvilleSouth Carolina. According to The Washington Postthe widely-sought support of the Tea Party-backed Haley reflects a softening of conservative concerns about Romneywho is considered a moderate in the race. He currently trails former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich in South Carolinawhich will hold its primary election on January 21.
Haleywho is of Indian descentis the first female governor of South Carolina. She is considered a possible 2012 Vice presidential nominee and potential 2016 presidential candidate. She said that while there is not a "perfect candidate" for the 2012 raceRomney is "a leader that knows what he wants to do the first day he gets into office." Haley's belief that Romney will repeal Obamacare ultimately led to her support.
Romney has remained consistently high in polls since entering the race earlier this yearbut has not been able to solidify conservative supportdue in part to the view that the health care reform he instituted in Massachusetts was similar to Obamacare. RecentlyNewt Gingrich has risen in the polls as the latest anti-Romney candidatebut has come under attack for providing consulting service to Freddie Mac. Gingrich holds a double-digit lead in South Carolina.
According Steve Schmidtan adviser to John McCain's 2008 presidential campaignRomney has “weathered a turbulent period and seems to have regained equilibrium in the context of the Gingrich surge." HoweverGingrich supporters do not give much credence to the Haley endorsement: state co-director Leslie Gaines commented"We have the whole Tea Party support which got her elected." As a state legislatorHaley also endorsed Romney in 2008.
Haley and Romney are currently on a two day campaign tour of South Carolina on Romney's planewhich his wife Ann refers to as "Hair Force One".


