http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Author_and_contrarian_Christopher_Hitchens_dies_at_age_62
Author and contrarian Christopher Hitchens dies at age 62
2011-12-16
Archived, Obituaries, Literature, Culture and entertainment, United Kingdom, Europe, Houston, Texas, United States, North America, Christopher Hitchens, Philosophy
British-born authorjournalist and political commentator Christopher Hitchens has died yesterday aged 62 at the MD Anderson Cancer Center in HoustonTexasfollowing a diagnosis of esophageal cancer in June 2010.
Hitchens was born in 1949 in Portsmouth. After graduating from Oxford with a third-class degree in politicsphilosophy and economics in 1970Hitchens wrote for the Times Higher Educational Supplement brieflybefore moving on to the New Statesman where he met the novelist Martin Amis. After moving to the United States in 1981he started writing for U.S.-based publications like Vanity FairThe Atlantic and Slate.
In more recent yearsHitchens sided with George W. Bush in supporting the war in Iraqand also went on to write a polemical book on religionGod Is Not Greatfollowing a theme apparent in his earlier debunking efforts towards Mother Teresa—"a fanatica fundamentalistand a fraud" according to Hitchens. The death of Jerry Falwell raised Hitchens' irestating that it is "a shame that there is no hell for Falwell to go to" and calling him a "faith-based fraud".
In his memoirsHitch-22he wrote of a sexual encounter with two (unnamed) male members of Margaret Thatcher's cabinet. Hitchens was well-known for his drinking and smoking habitsconsuming 50,000 cigarettes a year according to one reportand drinking enough every day "to stun the average mule" (according to Hitchens himself). The discovery of cancer last year wasaccording to Hitchens"something so predictable and banal that it bores even me".
Salman Rushdiewhom Hitchens had supported against Ayatollah Khomeini's fatwawrote on Twitter following Hitchens' death: "Goodbyemy beloved friend. A great voice falls silent. A great heart stops".
Hitchens was not close to his brother Peter Hitchensa conservative columnist. He is survived by wife Carol Bluedaughter Antoniaand two children Alexander and Sophia from an earlier marriage.

