http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/U.S._presidential_candidate_Gary_Johnson_leaves_GOP_to_vie_for_the_LP_nom
U.S. presidential candidate Gary Johnson leaves GOP to vie for the LP nom
2011-12-29
United States, North America, Politics and conflicts, Published, Archived, New Mexico, Libertarianism, Republican Party (United States), Libertarian Party (United States), Gary Johnson, Federal Election Commission of the United States, Same-sex marriage
Former New Mexico governor Gary Johnson ended his campaign for the Republican Party (GOP) presidential nomination to seek the backing of the Libertarian Party (LP). Johnson made the announcement yesterday during a press conference in Santa Fe. He remarked that it "was both a difficult decision - and an easy one...I have a lot of Republican historyand a lot of Republican supporters. But in the final analysis...I am a Libertarian - that is someone who is fiscally very conservative but holds freedom-based positions on the issues that govern our personal behavior."
Johnsonwho supports abortion rightsgay marriageand marijuana legalizationhad trouble gaining support for his GOP candidacy. He remained low in the polls and was invited to only two of the fifteen presidential debates. His name was often not included in surveysand he filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission after his exclusion from the November 12 CBS debate. He criticized the GOP establishment for failing to support his efforts. A switch to the LP had been expected for Johnson who argued that "the GOP process was not fair and open."
Democratic strategist Stanley Greenberg argued that "almost any third party helps President Barack Obama." A recent poll from Public Policy Polling shows Johnson with nine percent national support in a three-way race with Obama and GOP candidate Mitt Romney. Johnson's presence in the poll erases Romney's two percent lead in a head-to-head match up with Obamagiving the president a two point edge. Johnson's 20 to 23 percent support in his home state of New Mexico splits the vote to give Obama an easy victory in the state.
NeverthelessJohnson seems to believe he can win. In his announcementhe pointed to a survey showing that "sixty three percent of Americans said they wished there was a third choice for 2012." He maintains that he is that choice.
Johnson joins the field of nine candidates currently seeking the LP nomination including National Guard officer R.J. Harris and Libertarian activist R. Lee Wrights. The party will hold its nominating convention on May 5.


