http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/UK_Wikinews_Shorts:_March_1,_2010
UK Wikinews Shorts: March 1, 2010
2010-03-01
Wikinews Shorts, Published, Archived, Disasters and accidents, United Kingdom, Europe, Lincolnshire, England, Scotland, Fires, London, Lothian and Borders
  One person has been killed and three people have been injured as the result of a car crash in Lincolnshire , England . According to Humberside Police , a Vauxhall Corsa with four male occupents was travelling on Yarborough Road in the village of Grimsby at approximately 0230 GMT when the vehicle collided with a tree. The four male occupents came from the area. The police force refused to reveal more information about the crash. It is thought that the man who was killed was a passenger of the Vauxhall. Humberside Police also stated that the other three men are not suspected to be suffering from life-threatening injuries.  Sources   A gentleman"s dead body has been discovered in the toilet area of a bus station in the burgh of Galashiels in Scotland . Lothian and Borders Police sealed off the area after discovering his body on Saturday. An ambulance was alerted to the scene at around 1500 GMT , however the individual, who is currently remaining unidentified, was determined to be dead on arrival. A spokesperson for the police force stated that inquiries in relation to the incident were taking place but there did not appear to be any suspicious circumstances surrounding the incident.  Sources   A woman has died after a house fire occurred in the area of Chiswick , in the west of London , England . Members of the emergency services were alerted to the scene of the house fire on Esmond Road at approximately 2345 GMT on Friday. Fire service workers found the woman, who is currently remaining unidentified, in an unconscious state on the first floor of the building. She was transported to the Charing Cross Hospital where she later died. The house fire was considered to be controllable by 0526 GMT on Saturday. An investigation was launched later that day to try and determine what the cause of the fire was. The Metropolitian Police have said that it is currently too early to suggest that there were any suspicious circumstances surrounding the fire. Sources    