http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Wikinews_interviews_Joe_Schriner,_Independent_U.S._presidential_candidate
Wikinews interviews Joe Schriner, Independent U.S. presidential candidate
2010-04-17
April 17, 2010, 2012 United States presidential election, United States, North America, Politics and conflicts, Original reporting, Interview, Published, Abortion, US Civil War, Green Party of the United States, Archived, 

Journalist, counselor, painter, and US 2012 Presidential candidate Joe Schriner of Cleveland, Ohio took some time to discuss his campaign with Wikinews in an interview.Schriner previously ran for president in 2000, 2004, and 2008, but failed to gain much traction in the races. He announced his candidacy for the 2012 race immediately following the 2008 election. Schriner refers to himself as the &quot;Average Joe&quot; candidate, and advocates a pro-life and pro-environmentalist platform. He has been the subject of numerous newspaper articles, and has published public policy papers exploring solutions to American issues.Wikinews reporter William Saturn&lrm; talks with Schriner and discusses his campaign.William Saturn I was reading the January 2009 article In the 2008 presidential campaign, it was Joe the Plumber. In 2012, it&rsquo;s going to be Joe the Painter from the Star Beacon , and it says that you're &quot;a former print journalist and addictions counselor who switched to house painting when he felt guided to run for president.&quot; Why did you feel guided to run for president?Joe SchrinerOk, &lsquo;Joe the painter&rsquo;&hellip; While the Star Beacon article was done quite well as a whole, the wording in this part about &lsquo;the presidency and house painting&rsquo; is a bit too abbreviated, and a bit too disjointed. The more accurate version is&hellip; I have a degree in journalism from Bowling Green State University and have worked for several intermediate sized newspapers in Ohio. A ways into this, I changed professions and became a licensed chemical dependency counselor who started one of the first outpatient treatment programs in the Midwest for people who were raised in addictive/dysfunctional families. (As an aside, during Campaign 2000, I told CBS News in Monterey, that: &ldquo;To heal the country, we have to heal the family.&rdquo; [1] After working in the chemical dependency field for about eight years, I felt a spiritual prompting &ndash; as other people at times feel spiritual promptings to do any number of things &ndash; to leave this profession and go out on the road to look for people trying to make a difference when it came to things like healing the family, saving the environment, helping the poor, creating peace [2]...I felt compelled to gather these stories, using my journalism background, then share them with others &ndash; with the hopes of planting &ldquo;seeds of change.&rdquo; After a long, considered discernment process, I decided to go on the road and left Cleveland, in 1990. This was the start of an eight-year research period where I logged close to 100,000 miles. What I learned was a lot of tremendously creative, common sense solutions to practically all the issues of our day. Armed with this, I started to running for president in 1999, and have been doing it ever since (four successive election cycles). In each newspaper interview, each radio show, each speech... I share parts of what I researched with the hopes people will try some of it in their own town, and who knows how far out it will ripple from there. (I found that running for president is a great way to get a message out. And yes, I am indeed trying to win as well. Then I could get the information out a lot quicker, and further.) Now as far as the house painting, because I'm on the road some six to eight months a year campaigning, it's logistically quite hard to hold down a counseling or journalism job. So, instead, I do some part-time house painting to make ends meet. And thus, &ldquo;Joe the painter.&rdquo; [3] Note: As an example, in the heart of Buffalo, I interviewed Dr. Myron Glick who felt his own 'spiritual prompting' to move his family to inner city Buffalo and start the Jericho Road Health Clinic. He uses a minimal sliding fee scale and has seen people from at least 50 different countries (Buffalo is a port city). Why? Because he's Christian, he told me, and it is Jesus Christ' edict that we help the poor. I have shared Dr. Glick's story all over the country, with the hopes of inspiring other doctors to consider doing some version of the same. And each time that happens, I get a component of our healthcare bill passed &ndash; and another little kid living below the poverty line gets the medical help they might have otherwise not gotten. For more on our healthcare position paper, see [4] or, listen to my &ldquo;Fireside Podcast&rdquo; on healthcare, and podcasts on other pressing issues of the day, at [5]WSWhen you announced your candidacy following the 2008 election, you remarked that this would be your final run. Why did you make that decision, and why did you announce your candidacy so early in the electoral process?JSGiven the strategy about using running for president as a way of getting a message out to help change America now, I always announce early and start hitting the road often just as early. For instance, I was just on the front page of the LaGrange (GA) News talking about a project we'd researched (the Alterna Project) to provide long-term, affordable housing for new Hispanic immigrants in a community setting. Now if I had walked in the doors of that newspaper, approached an editor and said: &ldquo;Hi. I'm Joe from Cleveland and I have some great ideas I'd like to share with you.&rdquo; He/she would have looked at me, not like I was from Cleveland, but rather like I was from, oh, Mars... Also being on the road early, gives me that much more time to continue my cross country research for our position papers, and such. [6] And it gives me more time to, well, campaign in general. When you're short on Lear Jets and have to travel in a 1984 family camper, it just takes you a bit more time to get around. &ldquo;America is a lot bigger than it looks on the map,&rdquo; I often joke. And as far as this being our final run... we're planning on winning this time. [7] Although it just occurred to me that when I win this time, I'll have to run again for a second term. They don't call me &ldquo;average Joe&rdquo; for nothing. (My wife Liz says I&rsquo;m sometimes a bit short on forward planning.) For more about Liz [8].WSBack in 2000, Steve Chawkins with Ventura County News, wrote to you &quot;You won't win, you won't be president.&quot; Why do you believe you lost that particular election as well as the 2004 and 2008 elections? What have you done differently during this run?