http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Poland:_Around_100,000_people_attend_public_memorial_for_victims_of_plane_crash
Poland: Around 100,000 people attend public memorial for victims of plane crash
2010-04-18
April 18, 2010, Poland, Published, Obituaries, Europe, Politics and conflicts, Eyjafj&ouml;ll 2010 eruption, Archived, 

A public memorial for the victims of the plane crash that occurred last Saturday where the Polish president, Lech Kaczy?ski along several members of the Polish government died, was attended by 100,000 citizens of the country in Pilsudski Square of Warsaw.A gigantic white platform having a giant cross across the centre was constructed in the area which had photos of the victims, including Maria Kaczy?ski, the first lady of Poland and many high ranking Polish officials. The names of the deceased were read, beginning with the president and his wife, as their only daughter, Marta and Jaroslaw Kaczynski, the twin brother of Lech Kaczy?ski and former prime minister of the country, looked on. Former President Lech Walesa, Prime Minister Donald Tusk and interim president Bronislaw Komorowski were also present. The audience held Polish flags held together with black ribbons and observed a two minute silence before emergency sirens and church bells rang out.&quot;Our world went crashing down for the second time at the same place,&quot; acting President Komorowski said about the crash, which occurred near Russia's Katyn forest, where thousands of Polish soldiers were killed during the second World War. Prime Minister Tusk called the crash &quot;the greatest tragedy in Poland since the war.&quot;It marked the beginning of two days of ceremonies. A funeral Mass for the first couple will follow the memorial. The funeral will be held at St. John's Cathedral at 6 p.m. local time (16:00 GMT) in Warsaw.The coffins of Lech and Maria Kaczynski were taken to the St. John's Cathedral for the evening Mass. They will be flown to Krakow Sunday morning for the state funeral, Presidential Palace spokesman Jacek Sasin stated.&quot;During those few days when the palace was open, some 180,000 people came through the palace&quot; to pay their final respects, he said. Some of them waited for as much as 14 hours in the queue, he added. Teresa Winkler, 76, was one of the mourners who said that she came to pay respect to a President &quot;who took care of the people forgotten by society,&quot; such as aging soldiers and activists.&quot;He was a real patriot and a real Pole,&quot; Winkler said. &quot;I am afraid it will be hard to find another president like Kaczynski,&quot; she noted. Several other groups came to honor the first couple for their work for the nation.A state funeral for the first couple is slated to be held on Sunday; however, some world leaders canceled their plans to attend it. The principal cause for this was that several European airports remained closed, owing to volcanic ash that hovered in different parts of the continent.