http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Polish_President_Lech_Kaczy%C5%84ski_dies_as_his_plane_crashes_in_Russia
Polish President Lech Kaczy?ski dies as his plane crashes in Russia
2010-04-10
April 10, 2010, Poland, Featured article, Published, Archived, Disasters and accidents, Russia, Obituaries, Aviation, Europe, European Union, 
Polish President Lech Kaczy?ski, travelling with 95 other people, died when his plane crashed in Russia. Officials say the crash, which occurred when the plane was approaching a Russian airport on Saturday, was due to dense fog, and that there are no survivors.The Polish Central Bank governor, Slawomir Skrzypek, and other members of the Polish government were amongst those onboard. The crash was near Smolensk airport in western Russia. Kaczy?ski's wife was killed along with him when the Tupolev Tu-154 went down; the trip to Russia was to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn massacre, when thousands of Polish prisoners of war and civilians were killed by the Soviets.Sergei Antufyev, the governor of the Smolensk area, said on Russian television that no one survived the crash; the claim was backed by Polish news agencies as well. &quot;As it was preparing for landing, the Polish president's aircraft did not make it to the landing strip,&quot; he commented.&quot;According to preliminary reports, it got caught up in the tops of trees, fell to the ground and broke up into pieces. There are no survivors in that crash. We are clarifying how many people there were in the [Polish] delegation. According to preliminary reports, 85 members of the delegation and the crew,&quot; he added.The exact passenger number was not known at first, with conflicting figures given by the Russian police, who said there were 132 people on board, and Polish officials. However, a full flight manifest received from the Presidential Office has been published by several news portals, giving 96 as the number of killed in the crash, including eight members of the crew. The manifest is also available on the Office's official web page.Television footage showed the burning plane with its charred parts scattered in the forest where it crashed. The plane crashed approximately two kilometres (1.3 miles) from Smolensk airport.&quot;The plane caught fire after the crash. Teams began attempting to pull out passengers from the badly damaged airplane,&quot; commented a spokesman for the Polish Foreign Ministry from Warsaw. The chief of Poland's military force, Franciszek Gagor and Deputy Foreign Minister Andrzej Kremer were among the victims.A Polish television worker, Slawomir Wisniewski, said he was a witness to the crash, having seen it from hotel close by. &quot;I saw through the fog, the aeroplane flying very low with the left wing pointing to the ground. I heard something being broken and then that thudding sound. Two flashes of fire next to each other,&quot; he said, as quoted by the BBC.