http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Wikinews_Shorts:_Feburary_3,_2010
Wikinews Shorts: Feburary 3, 2010
2010-02-03
Wikinews Shorts, United States, North America, Crime and law, Africa, Nigeria, FBI, Disasters and accidents, China, India, Karachi, Pakistan, Politics and conflicts, Asia, Shanghai, Sindh, Food, Health, Drink, Fires
A compilation of brief news reports for&#160;Wednesday, February 3, 2010&#160;.
The Nigerian man accused of trying to blow up a Detroit-bound jetliner on Christmas day with hidden explosives is cooperating with investigators and providing fresh intelligence after the U.S. enlisted the help of his family, an administration official said. His family persuaded him to cooperate.
Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab has been providing information to Federal Bureau of Investigation agents questioning him, the official told reporters on the condition of anonymity.
The official declined to provide details on what kind of information Abdulmutallab was providing.
Related news
Sources
One person died and 41 were injured, including three nurses who are critically injured, in a major fire at Park Healthcare Hospital in Somajiguda, a suburb of the Indian city Hyderabad, on Tuesday morning.
The fire engulfed a major portion of the five-storey hospital’s first floor, along with some medical equipment and furniture on the other floors.
City police commissioner A K Khan said that a criminal case had been registered against the hospital management. "It is also being determined whether safety standards were followed by the hospital," he said.
Sources
Chinese authorities say they are preparing to launch a crackdown on melamine-laced milk after the scandal over tainted products, which made hundreds of thousands of children ill two years ago and damaged China’s brand reputation overseas, resurfaced.
China has dispatched inspectors to sixteen provinces to urge local governments to thoroughly investigate cases concerning food safety.
The decision comes after milk products tainted with the industrial chemical melamine were removed from sale in Shanghai and the provinces of Shaanxi, Shandong, Liaoning and Hebei, the state-run Xinhua News Agency said.
Related news
Sources
At least twenty-six people have been killed in Karachi, Pakistan after four days of ethnic killings, according to police officials. The officials said that nine people were killed on Monday in the city's Orangi western neighbourhood, which has a majority ethnic Pashtun community.
The Sindh government has awarded special powers to the Pakistan Rangers under Section 5 of the Anti-Terrorism Act 1997 and imposed Section 144 in the limits of 26 police stations for a month.
At least forty people were killed as ethnic clashes erupted across the city in early January.Home minister of Sindh province, Dr Zulfiqar Mirza has called upon the Army to restore peace and order.
Sources


