http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Illinois_man_charged_in_Facebook_harassment_case
Illinois man charged in Facebook harassment case
2010-02-08
Illinois, United States, North America, Crime and law, DuPage County, Illinois, Local only, Naperville, Illinois, Facebook, Benny the mascot (WWC2010), Writing contest 2010
A man from the Naperville, Illinois, United States area has been accused of allegedly threatening to kill his ex-girlfriend and her current boyfriend via messages posted on her Facebook account.&#160;
Nineteen-year-old Christopher J. Bensfield was arrested Jan. 28 at his home in unincorporated DuPage County near the far west-central part of Naperville. He is being held on a $12,500 bond at the DuPage County Jail in Wheaton. He is scheduled to appear at the DuPage County Circuit Court on a felony charge of harassment via electronic communication.&#160;Police Sergeant Gregg Bell said the ex-girlfriend, a Naperville-resident, asked Bensfield to stop sending the messages many times before she submitted printed copies of the threatening messages to Naperville police.
Court records indicate Bensfield is already on probation after pleading guilty last September to possession of a controlled substance. He was arrested in August 2008 after disobeying a stop sign in Naperville. Police searched his car and found marijuana and drug paraphernalia. This was the third time Benfield had been arrested for having marijuana since April 2007, when drugs were found in his possession at Naperville Central High School. Last October, a judge issued a fine and required him to join the DuPage County Sheriff's Work Alternative Program. He has also received five tickets within three months in 2008 for driving violations, including speeding,&#160;driving without insurance, transportation of an open alcohol container, and driving too fast for conditions.
Bensfield's mother also has an order of protection against him. Ms. Bensfield stated that he asked her for money in late December; he then broke into her home in Naperville's far southeast-side, punching holes in the walls and breaking various items before leaving. Christopher was arrested Dec. 29 and faced a misdemeanor charge of criminal damage to property. He "suffers from bipolar disorder and has not been taking his medication," according to information the Naperville Daily Herald has received from Ms. Bensfield.

