http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/UK_Wikinews_Shorts:_March_14,_2010
UK Wikinews Shorts: March 14, 2010
2010-03-14
Wikinews Shorts, Published, Archived, England, United Kingdom, Anthropology and archaeology, Europe, Archaeology, Disasters and accidents, Manchester, Greater Manchester
 According to what archaeologists have stated, 51 decapitated skeletons that were discovered in a burial pit in Dorset , England in June 2009, after excavations took place there, belonged to Vikings and are approximately a thousand years old. On closer inspection, analysis of the teeth on ten of the male bodies found that the individuals came from a country with a climate colder than that of the United Kingdom , most likely the Scandinavian region of Europe . Archaeologists from Oxford , Oxfordshire think that the Viking people were possibly given an execution by Anglo-Saxons , who came from a local area, between the years of approximately 910 AD and approximately 1030 AD, according to radiocarbon dating . David Score, who is the manager of the Oxford Archaeology project, stated: 'To find out that the young men executed were Vikings is a thrilling development. Any mass grave is a relatively rare find, but to find one on this scale, from this period of history, is extremely unusual.' Sources   A man who came from Greater Manchester , England has died after being involved in a two vehicle collision in the county of Cheshire in the same country. The gentleman, who is currently remaining unidentified, was travelling on the A57 road in his Ford Transit when he crashed into a heavy goods vehicle at approximately 0005 GMT on Saturday. A spokesperson for Cheshire Police stated that the 20-year-old man was declared dead at the scene of the collision. The truck driver suffered from minor injuries.  Sources   A girl has died after her bicycle collided with a car in Tyne and Wear , in the north-east of England . The 11-year-old has been identifed as Kately Weldon. According to police, she came from the local area. She was riding on her bicycle in the city of Sunderland at 2049 GMT on Saturday when a Vauxhall Vectra collided into her, causing her to fall of the bike. She was fatally injured as a result of the crash, which closed the road the collision occurred on for three hours so as to allow an investigation to take place. No other individuals suffered injuries as a result of the incident.  Sources   