http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/UK_Wikinews_Shorts:_March_27,_2010
UK Wikinews Shorts: March 27, 2010
2010-03-27
Wikinews Shorts, Published, Culture and entertainment, United Kingdom, Europe, Crime and law, England, Disasters and accidents, Games, Lotteries, Archived
 A winning EuroMillions lottery ticket, worth approximately £ 39.7 million ( US$ 59.2 million, € 44.1 million) has been claimed in the United Kingdom . The resulting lottery numbers were (in ascending order) 8, 16, 18, 37 and 43, with the two Lucky Star numbers being 2 and 6. A spokesperson for the National Lottery said: 'Subject to a claim being received and validated, the prize could be paid out when the banks open on Monday. The winner can then decide whether or not to go public and share their news.'  The EuroMillions lottery draw takes place in nine European countries including the United Kingdom, France , Spain , Austria , Belgium , Ireland , Luxembourg , Portugal and Switzerland .  Related news  Sources   A man has been given a jail sentence after being found guilty of committing a racially aggravated assault during a protest in Bedfordshire , England . 19-year-old Kier McElroy hit Venkateswara Muppalla in the head with a signboard that he was in possession of in the city of Luton on May 24, 2009. McElroy pleaded guilty to the offence of assault occassioning actual bodily harm but stated that he was not being racist. During the trial, which was held in Luton Crown Court, he admitted to a separate charge of affray, which was a consequence of his actions on the day. He stated that he had been intoxicated with alcohol at the time. On March 5, 2010, Kier McElroy was found to be guilty of the charge of racially aggravated assault occassioning actual bodily harm by the jury in the court. On Friday, he was sentenced to sixteen months in prison. Sources   A man has been killed and two other people have been injured as the result of a car accident involving two vehicles in Dorset , England . The three people were involved on the car crash on the B3157 road between the village of Portesham and the town of Weymouth at approximately 1700 GMT on Friday. Members of the police and ambulance service were alerted to the scene of the crash, which involved a black Ford Fiesta and another sports car, shortly afterwards. The sole 58-year-old male occupant of one of the vehicles, who currently cannot be identified, was deceased at the scene of the crash. The other two people, a woman aged 54 and man aged 64, were travelling in the other vehicle. They were both injured and were taken to hospital but are not thought to be suffering from life-threatening injuries. Inspector Eddie Henley, who was subsequently present at the scene of the crash, stated: 'This is a two vehicle collision with one fatality. There was one vehicle where the one male occupant received fatal injuries. The other vehicle had two casualties with injuries that are serious but not believed to be life threatening.' Sources   