http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/2010_BRIT_Awards_highlights
2010 BRIT Awards highlights
2010-02-19
Television, Film, Radio, Acting, Theatre, Culture and entertainment, Music, England, United Kingdom, ITV, Europe, Television, London, Awards, Music awards, Broadcast reporting, Rayboy8 (WWC2010), Writing contest 2010, Ryan Peteranna (Wikinewsie)
The 2010 BRIT Awards, presented by the British Phonographic Industry, is an annual award ceremony for music artists. This year, the competition took place in the Earls Court Exhibition Centre in London, England. The event started taking place in 1980, with this year's event being the 30th BRIT Awards. This year, the programme was broadcast live - although with a short delay to allow censorship of strong language - on ITV1 from 2000-2200 GMT on Tuesday. 5.8 million viewers watched it, which was an audience share of 21.9%.
The main presenter of the programme was British comedian Peter Kay, although various other celebrities also presented awards, including actor Andy Serkis, musician Melanie Brown, singer Shirley Bassey, television and radio presenter Jonathan Ross, actor Idris Elba, singer Geri Halliwell, television presenter Cat Deeley, comedian Alan Carr, singer Mika, fashion designer and film director Tom Ford, former glamour model Samantha Fox, musician Noddy Holder and musician and actress Courtney Love. Fearne Cotton was also a backstage presenter during the event. There was also an after show highlights programme broadcast on ITV2, immediately after the programme on ITV1 had finished, from 2200-2300 GMT. Presenting on the programme was Rufus Hound and Caroline Flack. BBC Radio 1 also had continuous official coverage on the station throughout the day of the awards, with disc jockeys Scott Mills and Greg James hosting a programme on the station at around the time of the award ceremony.
Various artists, all of which were BRIT Award nominees, performed during the ITV1 programme. Lily Allen, JLS and Kasabian were amongst the performers. American musician Lady Gaga said that "[t]his is for Alexander McQueen", who died on February 11, 2010, before performing two of her tracks - Telephone and Dance in the Dark. Dizzee Rascal and Florence and the Machine performed a duet entitled You've Got the Dirtee Love, which was a merger of two songs - You've Got the Love, which was originally recorded by The Source and Candi Staton - and later covered by Florence and the Machine - and Dirtee Cash, which was originally performed by Dizzee Rascal.
After Jay-Z and Alicia Keys performed their song Empire State of Mind, Cheryl Cole performed her track, Fight For This Love, although the performance featured excerpts from Show Me Love, a track that was originally recorded by Robin S.
Lady Gaga won all three awards that she was nominated for, including "International female solo artist", "International breakthrough act" and "International album", the latter being for The Fame. In one of her acceptance speeches, she said: "Thank you, thank you so so much. I love my fans. Thank you. My fans in the UK, thank you."
When accepting the award for "British male solo artist", rapper Dizzee Rascal stated: "It's about time as well." Music group JLS were nominated for three awards and won two of them - "British breakthrough act" and "British single". Group member Oritsé Williams stated in the acceptance speech: "We never ever thought this would happen, you've made our dreams come true." Kasabian was given the award for "British group". Lily Allen, who was wearing an orange wig during the award ceremony, received the award for "British female solo artist". In her acceptance speech, she declared: "Oh my god. I only wore this orange wig 'cause I though it'd make it harder for them to find me, the cameramen, and catch my disappointed face."
British group Florence and the Machine won the "Mastercard British album" award for the album Lungs. Florence Welch of the group accepted the award, stating: "Thanks so much for having me back. Cheers! [...] There are so many people that help me make this album and so many people who supported it, people like you." The award for "BRITs performance of 30 years" went to former group the Spice Girls for their performance of Wannabe/Who Do You Think You Are. The award for "International male solo artist" went to rapper Jay-Z.
Former British group Oasis were awarded with the honour of "BRITs album of 30 years", for their album (What's the Story) Morning Glory?. Former group comrade Liam Gallagher came onto the stage to accept the award and told the viewers: "Listen kids. I wanna thank Bonehead, Quiggs, Alan White... the best fucking fans in the world. Live forever." He then threw his microphone and the trophy into the crowd and walked off the stage. Presenter Peter Kay then came on and said about Gallagher: "What a knobhead."
At one point during the programme, a pre-recorded video with Prince Harry of Wales in it was shown. In the video, Prince Harry said: "You'll be pleased to know that I'm not gonna sing, but only because I don't want to show up the next act. The BRITs is a celebration of all that is totally outstanding and unique about British music. But what's less well known about the BRITs is the fantastic work it does raising millions of pounds for the BRIT trust which has benefited thousands of young people to develop their talents and generally enrich our society. Well done on all you've achieved. I hope you have a fantastic evening."
The "Critic's choice" award was given to British music artist Ellie Goulding. The "Outstanding contribution award" was won by British musician Robbie Williams, who performed a medley of thirteen of his songs at the end of the programme - Let Me Entertain You, Supreme, Millennium, Feel, Everything Changes (originally performed by Take That, the group that Williams was formerly a member of), Angels, No Regrets, Bodies, Come Undone, Morning Sun, Rock DJ and Rudebox.
Below is a complete list of the recipients of the awards on Tuesday night. Please note that the awards list is not in order of when they were given out.

