http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Spider-Man_to_save_Obama%27s_Inauguration_Day_in_upcoming_Marvel_comic
Spider-Man to save Obama's Inauguration Day in upcoming Marvel comic
2009-01-09
Published, North America, United States, Washington, D.C., 2008 United States federal elections, 2008 United States presidential election, Culture and entertainment, Comics, Media, Wackynews, George W. Bush, Bill Clinton, Barack Obama, Archived
Marvel Comics announced Thursday that an upcoming issue of a Spider-Man comic will feature United States President-elect Barack Obama meeting the web-slinging superhero.
A six-page tongue-in-cheek story, to appear in The Amazing Spider-Man issue 583, "Spidey Meets the President!" is created by Zeb Wells, Todd Nauck and Frank D'Armata. The issue features Peter Parker visiting Washington, D.C., on photo assignment to cover the Presidential and Vice Presidential inauguration ceremony. The Chameleon is also in town, hoping to sabotage the ceremony with a look-a-like impostor of Obama. Parker's alter-ego Spiderman must save the day from his arch-enemy's nefarious plans.
The issue will appear on newsstands January 14, before the actual inauguration.
Among the lines of dialog in the issue are "Ya hear that, Chameleon? The president-elect here just appointed me ... secretary of shuttin' you up."
The issue will have a commemorative cover, and retail for US$3.99 (£2.65). Alan Giroux, owner of All About Books and Comics in Phoenix, says he predicts the issue to be on the collectors' market for $20 by the first day. "This issue will have a lot of heat and go for premium prices. I already have people calling about it," he said.
The issue's cover will feature Obama smiling, with a thumbs up pose. Spiderman is featured hanging upside-down beside him, whispering: "Hey, if you get to be on my cover, can I be on the dollar bill?"
The issue is not official merchandise of the US Democratic Party, Obama campaign, the Obama-Biden Transition Project, or White House.
According to Marvel comic's editor-in-chief Joe Quesada, the publication series learned that the President-elect is a long-time fan and collector as a kid of the Marvel super hero. "When we heard that president-elect Obama is a collector of Spider-Man comics, we knew that these two historic figures had to meet in our comics' Marvel Universe. A Spider-Man fan moving into the Oval Office is an event that must be commemorated in the pages of Amazing Spider-Man."
During his campaigning, Mr. Obama made mention of Spider-Man at child-oriented events. He told Entertainment Weekly magazine that Batman and Spider-Man were his favorite superheroes, because of their "inner turmoil".
Quesada remarked that "there is a long history of presidents appearing in Spider-Man comics, from Franklin D. Roosevelt through to George W. Bush, who has appeared on several occasions."
President Ronald Reagan appeared in the pages of Batman: The Dark Knight Returns. Bill Clinton appeared in Superman: The Man of Steel and Richard Nixon in Watchmen.
