http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/2010_UK_general_election_results
2010 UK general election results
2010-05-06
Published, Elections, United Kingdom, Politics and conflicts, Europe, Nick Clegg, Wales, Cardiff, Wales, Bristol, England, Archived,
 This table shows the results for 649 of 650 constituencies in the 2010 general election in the United Kingdom (not including the delayed constituency of Thirsk and Malton, which will hold its election on 27 May).  The "Constituency" column shows the name of each constituency, linked to the relevant Wikipedia article. the "Result" column shows the winning party, and whether they held or gained the seat (and, if relevant, who they gained it from). The "Votes" column shows how many votes were received by the winning party, the "Share" column their share of the vote, and the "Swing" column the swing in the direction of the gaining party.  In the general election, people over the age of eighteen around the United Kingdom may choose to vote for a candidate at their local polling booth, and Members of Parliament are elected to each constituency based on the first past the post system. Whichever party has a majority of MPs after all constituencies have announced their results has the opportunity to form a government.  The incumbent party before the dissolution of parliament was Gordon Brown 's Labour Party, exit polls suggested a small Conservative Party majority, which-when this swing is projected nationally-would cause a hung parliament. The exit polls also suggested that despite reports that support for the Liberal Democrats had surged following the first national televised leaders' debates in the United Kingdom, the Liberal Democrats would suffer from a third party squeeze.  On the morning of Friday 7, 2010 the accuracy of the exit polls was demonstrated when it was revealed that there was indeed a hung Parliament and that although the Conservative Party had the greatest number of seats and votes it would be impossible for them to achieve an outright majority. The constitution of the United Kingdom allows for the incumbent Labour Party to first attempt to form a government and incumbent Prime Minister, Gordon Brown announced that he would allow civil servants from the Cabinet Office to help facilitate negotiations. Despite the Labour Party openly courting the Liberal Party, their leader Nick Clegg has stated that as the party with the most seats and most votes the Conservatives have the right to attempt to form a government.  Some seats were also be contested by one or more of a number of smaller parties and independents, including the United Kingdom Independence Party, the British National Party, and the Green Party of England and Wales, who all already hold seats in the European Parliament and local government authorities, all hoped to gain their first seats in the House of Commons in this election. History was made when the Greens won their first Parliamentery with their leader Caroline Lucas winning Brighton Pavilion. In Northern Ireland the Alliance Party also won their first seat with Naomi Long taking Peter Robinson's seat.  Please refresh this page periodically to see the latest results as they come in.    