http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Australian_rules_football:_Interview_with_Andy_Thissling,_statistician_for_the_Traralgon_Football_Club_senior_side
Australian rules football: Interview with Andy Thissling, statistician for the Traralgon Football Club senior side
2010-05-18
Australian rules football, Original reporting, Interview, Gippsland Football League, Sports, Local only, Australia, Victoria, Published, Archived,
Wikinews contributor Patrick Gillett interviewed Andy Thissling of the Traralgon Football Club. Andy is the statistician for the Gippsland Football League clubs senior side, or first XVIII. The Gippsland Football League (officially Gippsland League, GL) is the only major Australian rules football competition in the Gippsland region according to the Victorian Country Football League.  Patrick Gillett : Can you describe what you do at Traraglon footy club?  Andy On match day, I do the stats for the Traralgon Football Club, for the seniors. And I love it so much. I want to have this job for ever.  PG Sounds good. How Long have you been doing this?  Andy What do you meen mate? How long have I been doing the stats for?  PG Yeah.  Andy I've been doing it since 2004. I got asked to do it and since then, I've been doing since 2004 to today's date.  PG How often do you talk to the coach and provide him with the stats?  Andy Each quarter I go to the coaching staff and get them all my stats to them and tell it to them what's what. An the I do them at the end of the quarter. And then at the end of the game I'll hand them my stats.  PG What is your job out side of football?  Andy My job outside of football is, I work at a supermarket called Coles Supermarket in Traralgon. I work there three days a week. That keeps me out of mischief for a few days.  PG Sounds a bit like me.  Andy [laughs] Yeah mate, that's like us.  PG Does working at Coles effect your involvement with the footy club?  Andy Not really. It's just three days of work and that's all. The rest I'll stay home do some house work and get ready for footy on Saturdays. Goes like lightning during the week.  PG Doesn't sound to bad. Will Traralgon win the minor premiership this year, like they did last year?  Andy We take one game at a time and that's all. Footy's a funny old sport mate.  PG Damn straight it is, Good to hear.  Andy Yeah that's right mate.  PG Has there ever been a point when you've wanted to give up doing the stats?  Andy No. I just like to do it and if I want a break it give someone else a go and tell then the action.  PG Good to hear mate. Final question - do you want to add anything for readers?  Andy Thanks for you time Pat and keep up the good work mate.   