http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Half_of_Europe%27s_flights_could_take_off_Monday,_EU_says
Half of Europe's flights could take off Monday, EU says
2010-04-19
April 19, 2010, Published, Europe, Aviation, Eyjafj&ouml;ll 2010 eruption, Disasters and accidents, Transport, Economy and business, Archived, 
The European Union presidency says that air traffic over Europe could return to about 50 percent of its normal level on Monday, if weather forecasts confirm that skies over the continent are clearing of volcanic ash.European transportation ministers from countries affected by the ash from the Eyjafjallaj&ouml;kull volcano in Iceland began spewing into the sky last week will meet on Monday by video conference in an effort to reopen closed airspace.The volcanic ash has brought chaos to the region &mdash; canceling most trans-Atlantic and European flights and leaving thousands of airline passengers stranded for days, as well as disrupting commerce.European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas says Europe has never experienced a transportation disruption like this and that officials need to take action to get things moving again. &quot;This is clear also, that this is not sustainable. So we cannot go ahead and just wait until the ash cloud will disappear,&quot; he said.Kallas says Monday's meeting will try to find a technological solution to the flight disruption, but he stressed that safety considerations will come first. &quot;It is clear that safety is our first and utmost priority, so we cannot compromise with safety. But we are working based on new evidence about test flights, how to assess the situation and how to find solutions to increase air space without compromising safety,&quot; he said.Spanish Secretary of State for E.U. Affairs Diego L&oacute;pez Garrido says the ash cloud over Europe is moving to the northeast, which could clear half of the air space over the continent. &quot;Probably there will be half of the European Union territory influenced by this ash cloud. And from this perspective, the forecast is that there will be half of the flights possibly operating in Europe,&quot; he said.But the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands say their airspace will remain closed for much of Monday. However, Air travel in Southern Europe &mdash; including Spain, southern Italy, Greece, and Turkey &mdash; remains open.Meteorologists say conditions over Europe were unstable on Sunday and that shifting winds made air travel dangerous. They also note that the irregular eruptions from the Icelandic volcano, which continues to spew ash into the sky, is adding to the unpredictability of the situation.