http://en.wikinews.org/wiki/Obama,_Medvedev_sign_treaty_cutting_nuclear_stockpiles
Obama, Medvedev sign treaty cutting nuclear stockpiles
2010-04-09
April 9, 2010, Politics and conflicts, Published, Archived, Nuclear proliferation, Nuclear weapons, United States, Russia, North America, Barack Obama, Asia, Europe, Dmitry Medvedev, Prague, Czech Republic, 
U.S. President Barack Obama and Russian President Dmitri Medvedev have signed a treaty to reduce their countries' nuclear stockpiles by 25 to 30 percent over seven years.In the Spanish Hall, an ornate chamber within the Czech capital's Prague Castle, the two countries, which own more than 90 percent of the world's nuclear weapons, agreed to downsize their arsenals.Presidents Obama and Medvedev sat in front of U.S. and Russian flags and signed their countries' first major nuclear arms reduction accord in almost two decades.The new ten-year pact, which is called the &quot;New START Treaty&quot;, requires the U.S. and Russia to cut their inventory of nuclear warheads to about 1,500 each in the next seven years. Both countries are estimated to have well over 2,000 warheads now.The agreement also slashes by more than half the number of missiles, submarines and bombers that carry the weapons.The pact replaces the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START I), which was signed by U.S. President George H.W. Bush and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev in the final days of the Soviet Union. START I expired in December of last year. The treaty complements the other two nuclear arms reduction treaties signed by the United States and Russia, which where the 1993 Russia, which where the 1993 START II treaty and the 2002 Moscow Treaty also known as SORT.Obama said the treaty is a big step forward for world security. &quot;Today is an important milestone for nuclear security and nonproliferation and for U.S.-Russia relations,&quot; he said.Medvedev said because of this treaty, the entire world community has won. The Russian leader said the year-long negotiations were tough, but hard work on both sides brought success.